# Sequence-Analysis
Sequence Analysis is an accumulation of all the assignments done is the class BME160 known as Research Programming in the Life Sciences. The code consists of 5 different classes that will accept and read Fasta Files. The first of the classes is a Fasta file reader. The second class called NucParams, given a sequence, will calculate sequence length, GC content, codon frequence, and number of codons. The code will translate the DNA sequence into a protein sequence. The third class is called ProteinParams, given the protein sequence, the code will calculate the number of amino acids and total molecular weight, molar extinction coefficient and mass extinction coefficient, theoretical isoelectric point (pI), and amino acid composition. The fourth class is called OrfFinder, given the DNA sequence, the code will iterate through the sequence collecting each codon and the goal is to find the open reading frames. Using a codon table, the code will find the start codons and marking them as so and iterate through the sequence until it finds a stop codon. If the sequence is in the correct frame (1,2, or 3), has a start codon, has a stop codon, and length inbetween the start and stop codons, it is an open reading frame. The code will iterate through the sequence and it's reverse compliment finding all the open reading frames in each frame of the sequence. For more information on class 4 please refer back to my repository. The fifth class is called FindPrimers. Where given a DNA sequence and optimal parameters, the code will calculate the best possible candidates for primers. The parameters when considering the primers are where you want to place the primers, the length of primers, the GC content, and the melting temperature. The code will calculate these parameters that are given by the user and will return a pair of primers, one on the forward strand and one on the reverse strand. For more information on class 5 please refer back to my repository.
